This program that generates a password consisting of random letters, numbers, and characters. Through the use of the Math.random method alongside loops and user input, I successfully implemeted a program that generates genuine random passwords. Furthermore, the user to determine the length, and character type of their password.
Using a combination of method abstraction and stepwise refinement, I started drafting how I wanted to implement my code. I initially worked on the system that returned which type of characters would be generated based on user input. This task proved difficult, as I struggled to figure out a concise implementation that made sense. After research online and inspiration from Lab 7 (Sorting Airports), I decided that nested if-statements were perfect for determining the character types generated. I created a method called “choice,” which took in which character types the user wanted included in their password and returned a randomly generated value ranging from 1-3 that reflected the user’s choices. After this, I needed to implement the code that generated the password. I opted to use a char array with a length determined by the user and created a for loop that iterates through each element of the char array. In each iteration, the “choice” method would be called and determine which character type would be generated. Finally, a random character of that given character type was generated and assigned to the element at the current index value. Once all characters are generated, the String.valueOf method is used on the array to return the password to the method. This code was encapsulated in a method called “generatePassword.” Finally, I needed to implement the code into the main method. This was simple, as all I needed to do was initialize variables, prompt the user, and call on the methods I created. After doing this, I completed my project.
